.TH NETATOPD 8 "October 2012" "Linux"
.SH NAME
.B netatopd
- log network statistics of finished processes
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents the 
.I netatopd
daemon. This daemon reads the counters of exited processes
delivered by the
.I netatop
module and writes the counters to a logfile.
.PP
The 'usual' state of this daemon is the getsockopt()
command NETATOP_GETCNT_EXIT. With this command,
.I netatopd
blocks until an exited task is available on the exitlist of the 
.I netatop
module. The obtained netpertask struct that countains the
counters of an exited process is written to a logfile
(similar to the process accounting info provided by the base kernel
itself).
The daeon stops logging when there is only 5% of free space left
in the filesystem of the logfile.
.PP
The logfile starts with a small header struct that contains a.o. a sequence
number indicating how many netpertask structs are currently logged.
This header is mmapped and can be consulted by analysis processes like
.I atop
that consult the logfile.
Behind the header, the netpertask structs can be found in compressed
form. Every compressed netpertask struct is preceeded by one byte 
specifying the size of the compressed netpertask struct.
.PP
Before an analysis process starts using the logfile, it has to subscribe
itself by decrementing a semaphore owned by the
.I netatopd
daemon. In this way,
.I netatopd
knows how many analysis processes are currently using the logfile.
When no processes use the logfile any more,
.I netatopd
truncates the logfile and start building a new one as soon as
a new subscription of an analysis process is noticed.
.PP
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 5
.B /var/run/netatop.log
File in which 
.I netatopd
writes the compressed accounting records about 
processes that have finished.
.SH SEE ALSO
.B netatop(4),
.B atop(1),
.B atopsar(1),
.B atoprc(5)
.br
.B http://www.atoptool.nl
.SH AUTHOR
Gerlof Langeveld (gerlof.langeveld@atoptool.nl)
